so when you think about hyper growth and
you know reaching hyper products what
does it look like
um it's a question that I often get and
you know obviously if you think of you
know the obvious uh you know examples
you know the Shopify the twilio's the
slack so I want to show a bit like where
I've been involved so I can you know
probably put to my experience my
expertise in context you can see here
gorgeous drift
um and and ramp in context of the best
SAS companies uh that's that went uh
public you can see here like obviously
ramp is is the outlier that went from
like 10 to 100 in in one year
um and until we know like a couple of
bitter like I was like even like
possible
um but all of these companies uh have
one thing in common and that is not me
that's not what I'm going to point to
they have in common a growth team they
have in common the growth team that
takes risks and is looking for outlier
effects
that is very important please like put a
post in there and what we'll come back
to it
um
so obviously when you see that you're
like how can I go as fast as RAM right
and and so this this those four let's
say components which I would summarize
it to so yeah low CAC scalable
strategies a growth team with Engineers
super duper important all right if you
do not have uh Engineers I would
question whether you're a growth team
you're probably a dimension team right
and if you have questions let's cover
that all right
a aggressive marketing stack if you're
not looking for the new and upcoming
tools The Cutting Edge uh platforms to
put it the other way if you're using
Marketo as your core platform and your
only platform how are you going to
differentiate from all your competitors
how are you going to do things
differently if that's if you're using
the same tool in the same old uh charts
same resources
right I don't think there is
um a 10x marketer uh you know in most
companies that's not a thing right so
you need to have a different mindset to
the fourth point that is using different
resources
and different tools that is how you
create that competitive mode
and it's I'm very uh I'm very
intentional uh on on the ladder on the
0.23 and 4.
so let's go through like the first one
the scalable low tax matches let's look
at a couple of examples generally I'm
going to pull out one of the examples
which works really well for like sales
lead uh SAS businesses and that's our
doubt it's not like your
um
to knock your mother's outbound that's
what you would say uh it's
um
High scale modern outbound
has extremely good attack
uh and extremely good scale so the the
way you're going to do that is you're
going to build uh and understanding of
your entire Target markets what we call
the tab Target uh um accessible markets
total addressable market so your total
adjustable Market
um and you're going to map all the
companies you buy that data of all the
companies in the market and then you buy
all the contact data you scroll them
inject that into a database of yours you
run some personalized copy any added to
a motion now that skills
fairly similar to what you could have
done in the past but let me show you
what the outcome can look like
this is the montex stack uh uh that
we're talking about here
um the mocktek stack
um and that is like a couple years all
but still very relevant in this case
this is entirely for outbound
you see all of the intent capture so the
third party intent the G2 crowd was now
commonplace but also the
um hiring data from predict leads the
technographics data uh the website visit
data these days you have six cents you
have a credit that does that right all
that tells you which companies within
your tab on the database
or expressing Buy in text or likely to
respond positively to converge those are
the ones that's a sub segment you want
to email and all of that then gets
scored in the middle here
enriched and then outputs automatically
to obviously emails and email that's a
point but also the advertising audiences
your gifts to power Dynamic live chats
um to change the websites
um
there is as of today this slide here is
old this is like when I was at segments
there's an old slide it's like 2018 2019
Maybe
five years old there is two still as of
today no tool no platform that enables
you to do this off the shelf
and that is why this is still remote if
you're capable as of today
of having an anonymous visitor come on
your on your website you detect through
the IP the domain the company you just
call it you know it's a high fit company
you're in your mid-year perfect ICP
right and you power chat
dynamically you put you pull an AE into
that chat
and you send an email
to that to the right buyers at the
company
that today still does not exist in a
single platform that is a competitive
mode
a good example of like using technology
to solve to create competitive modes
good example of using Engineers Ops
Engineers to build that
how do you build the town I'm going to
pull an example from the ramp uh
Playbook they used to have multiple uh
vendors
they had like five or six different
vendors they had like the Zoom info the
uh the clear bit and and all of that
right um a lot of the windows in order
to get the company data but more
importantly the contact data the best
coverage of contact data not 40 not 50
when you have the good email uh outbound
campaign good performance you want 80 90
percent
and that is an example of going back to
what I was saying earlier of the um
Cutting Edge platforms they found these
guys uh waterfall uh European company
that Aggregates all the vendors into one
API into one Platform One cost and so
rather than having to like buy the
um you know the credits sign the
contracts both legal with all the
different vendors
they pay one team and that team
disseminates the data requests to all
the vendors buys and bulk has great
prices brings back responds with the
best contact and the best price
so basically they're just that's what
they do right
it's unknown for now I'm giving you this
tip it's unknown
it is Cutting Edge and for now it is
giving you a competitive Advantage it's
not going to last the point of like
technology Advantage is that they never
last five euros right
but it could last 12 months
and if you don't have that you should
get and you're doing outbound you should
get onto it or something similar
but you should always be on the lookout
for things like this personally I'm on
the lookout for the next thing like I'm
of an investor I've tried using things
like kavus which does a deep fix
or HDR videos
right and so instead of like having the
Azure this is like you know hey Caitlyn
uh I'm I'm G from hyper gold and I'd
love to talk to you which works right
but it's expensive to have those videos
at scale they build a deep thick of my
face and they reproduce the video ads
here does it work perfectly no it
doesn't I'll be honest it doesn't get
but the day it does am I going to use it
absolutely absolutely and then
eventually the market will get used to
it and so the conversions will drop
all right so there's a reversing to
normal
the point is by this try the next new
thing be on the lookout aggressively
look for new technologies uh if for
example like I've been doing
marketing growth for a while
but when I got saster in September NSF
right actually in the Bay Area you'll
see me roaming the booths and talking to
the smaller vendors and many CMOS don't
do that I go talk to the teams of like
either the small boobs or small vendors
the young teams and I'll just like have
like a coffee with them to understand
and most another fit for me
but I'll always find a few gems in there
so
okay
in terms of like
um email playbooks this is what I used
to do
in the past decade 2010 to 2020 right we
would buy the data from a little bit
inject a couple of like personalized
Tags I'm sure you've all done that right
there's some unique things you might see
here you can see there's like a Persona
specific outcome
um as the uh you know in the middle uh
here
um and there was like the personal
specific play those were
very simple uh lists of
um let's say emerge tags that we would
compute based on an ICP and Industry and
we would have like a spreadsheet of
sorts and could automatically merge out
the rights
forecasted predicted outcome
and that's worked fairly well this is
this is not 2010 anymore my friends uh
we've moved on from this we're now in a
word of AI all of this is now much
better done
with AI
um platforms so let me show you where we
are and
I have the pleasure
I'll skip through this and I'll go to
and back up to this excuse me I have the
pressure of showing you two examples
from ramp after examples I'm sharing
them because people who have received
them have shown them on LinkedIn so
obviously it's already public what you
can see here and I'll annotate here for
a second
in this first email
this is
this is very American this is somebody
using their
um Origins
as a way to reach out to a prospect with
the same Origins
in this case it is person to person and
you can see they're injecting the
information about Persian dishes uh and
so it's it's very personalized
okay
and you can see what the person has
posted on their own on LinkedIn
right they loved it why does this work
because it feels personal
because it feels like somebody has
looked at you has immediately identified
this report of a small
demographic and you have something in
common so there's kind of a relationship
because you know there's there's
something there and you've taken care of
writing something custom you've gone
through efforts and that elicits
reciprocity
Taiwan works great on the side here let
me clean it up actually and then we will
go to the site here
this here
is another email completely different in
this case no background due to Great
reciprocity in this case the automation
because all this automated
has sent an email to this guy called
mock about
his college sports team again he's very
American most CFOs the Target
demographic is CFOs almost all CFOs in
the US have gone to college probably all
like 99.9 whatever right and all
colleges in the US most have a one or
two sports team and people love their
sports team they're called sports team
and they follow them so we use that we
use that and we give them
a
um an opportunity to uh
bid
S I would say on the outcome of the
upcoming college sports game
for free they're betting for free right
it's like we've tried different versions
of that if we launch a gift card now
this has a response rate of above 10
percent
what's interesting is that just sending
the email will
um take a demo with me and I'll give you
a 15 gift called hundred dollar gift
card has a much slower response though
the
um actual pay rate is higher because in
this case that your team could lose
but this is personalized
in the background here what's happening
which you might not realize is that
there is a team of Engineers the last
night that has built a database of all
upcoming college games
uh and competing teams the uh likelihood
of outcome so you can pick the right uh
the right bets right so this is a sports
betting algorithm happening there's a
little pet project for example over the
weekend right and the entire automation
okay
um it is small volume
but it works great
it works quick
um why do we do those things because in
this program here for this demographic
we rarely have
um intent signals from companies about
you know changing their credit cards so
if we can't read intent signals we're
going for the best excuses personalized
excuses very very relevant
all this is found by GPT
um and this this is the modern approach
sorry
so that that is I'd say what you should
all be focusing on uh if you if you want
to build the um
the modern approach and let me go back
here
cool okay so
uh with that said
um I want to share another example of uh
a um G I think right now I'm only seeing
like the national problem stop this a
second I have
grown going crazy and I'll just relax a
sideshow
no not a problem at all we do have you
have questions in the chat
questions about what the company name is
for that deep fake video
ah yes I'll write it down in the chat it
is called taboos
perfect and then questions about that
email you were showing when it came to
the personalization of Syracuse and
Persian and those types of things
at what scale cannot be replicated does
it have to be one on like one V1 what is
the background to that
yeah I would recommend doing things
manually at first trying it out you see
if the audience reacts well this could
be a dumpster fighter I mean when I have
tried the uh uh let's say personal
origins in an email absolutely not just
for context do not do that in Europe you
will get sued through your eyeballs if
you do that it's a very very bad idea
okay
um but the team in the US told me that
is this is absolutely correct this is
great it's gonna work
let's try it I'm always for trying new
things and see if it works and it
creates the right
um
I'd say the right connection
okay okay thank you for that Insight
sure cool awesome uh actually let me
skip to uh two things one which is
what's the team what the team looks like
to uh build those kind of experiments
um
and this is the org chart I recommend if
you have a VP of growth head of would be
doesn't matter and then there is per
Channel a uh the equivalent of somebody
who is a channel specialist
investigation outbound specialist
in the middle you're going to have the
growth pm
who is I'd say prioritizing the work of
all both teams right and then you have
this outbound pod just here which has
let's say a a growth marketer a growth
analyst and the access to engineers
okay the overall growth PM manages all
the resources allocation
and focuses the engineers to work either
on an outbound project a paid project
SEO project right that is the structure
that I recommend that enables you to
create those kinds of uh to aggressive
experiments
so just to close so we can move into the
Q a uh the mindset I'd recommend having
is that of the angel investor is it the
early stage investors okay it's you need
to ship a lot of small experiments in
order to have a few outliers
I don't think that you're gonna come up
with like
um do you want to experiment out of one
that's gonna work great
I I don't do that I can't do that I've
been doing that for a while but if I try
20 things
I'm very likely to have one or two that
are strong outliers as the examples that
I shared just before so
okay so you need to have multiple
multiple bets
okay
um the way to think about that is to
separate the growth marketing team from
the core product and core marketing
you're not better than those teams if
you do growth all right
um you're just operating differently you
are the early stage investor you should
have a lot of uh uh I think a lot of
things cooking at the same time you do
not have a lot of information
you have hypothesis and you measure
solidly whereas marketing
um cannot afford to fail marketing needs
to succeed almost every time growth's
job is to fail that's the job fail
seventy percent of the time to find
those outliers
I and I hold this and the same thing is
truth like this bit with core products
so just to summarize the takeaways here
um
the right technology stack
okay
um
scale always scale will bring you the
local
okay
your growth team you should have a
growth team it should be you should ship
like a product team work like Engineers
with the engineering mindset on a
marketing service area with dollars as a
API no store
right and if you are beyond the series B
which is where I tend to focus these
days
success comes from continuing to take
those risks most companies will slow
down for the csb is because they revert
to the traditional approaches they
become safe
you're safe you're dead you need to take
the risks
so with that
um let's move into the Q a and have a
couple of more appendix slides um if
there's questions when I can just pull
them out
can I can I ask mine of course Caitlyn
hey do you curious how you think I I put
a question but um
there are a lot of it a lot of the
growth Playbook and the outbound
Playbook all these pieces assume almost
assume all customers are in market right
but traditionally I think in marketing
we hope that 10 of customers are in
market right either in Market or close
or switchable right or switchable like
we're just how do you think about that
in general and then two
so how do you think about the Playbook
longitudinally because you talked for
example about hey if I get one more sub
then I lose it's worth it but what if
you break that relationship that in six
months they're willing to buy a ramp or
nine months they'll switch from zendesk
to gorgeous a lot of the growth and
outbound doesn't seem to think about how
to access them down the road other than
classic drip marketing so what state of
the art thinking here of the 1090 what
to do about the 90s
yeah it's a great question so on the
first one I'll say I've done a bunch of
tests on
um understanding the the user Journey
um prior to people engaging with my
funnel there's a lot of work now people
have called the dog funnel it's a
similar to the intent signals we talked
about
um and that is becoming pretty good
pretty good at understanding like who's
in market now and who is about to be in
market so for example if you look for a
gorgeous a e-commerce company that hires
a VP of success
um and it's opening a job or something
for VP success it's very likely to be in
markets in a couple months that is very
reasonable so we know that right
now what's interesting is I've tried in
the past multiple times to use that
information to accelerate the buying
cycle
and I want to say that has not worked
you cannot accelerate the buying cycle
all right I tried that I'm going to use
very specific ad segment we were really
good at predicting who's about to be
um deploying warehouses and we thought
hey let's start trip noticing them about
segment yeah you know what they're not
ready they're not ready like mentally
not they're not there yet you can't just
sell them on like the next thing if they
haven't done that indication right but
what you can do is identify them put
them on the time and says hey we can
start seeing some useful content be top
of Mind provide value now so that we
have a hundred percent coverage
on those people when they come in
markets and I actually built a metric
um a specific case when it was at drift
because it was obviously chats are you
know you can scrape who's you know using
intercom or drift that's very easy you
can see that on the websites and I um we
looked at of all the companies we
predicted will be in markets which ones
ended up buying drift intercom or
somebody else yeah and the answer is we
became really good at predicting
predicting who would buy a new chat
um and we pinpointed all of the ones we
predicted and that we did not talk to as
a failure of growth and marketing and
all the ones that we talked to but
bought somebody else has a failure of
cells right and that is if you can't do
that and your product is exposed on a
project I would strongly encourage you
to do that it's very valuable because
then you know hey why did we miss that
company like this company is just bought
our competitor yes what happened why did
we not know about it what signal should
we have seen did they hire somebody did
they buy a you know a relevant
technology that goes with it uh and so
you need to be able to map all that you
can't accelerate the buying cycle you
can just be top of Mind in the before
cycle on the next cycle
General Insight yeah I think only what
do you for advice for folks here or
later I find only the best marketing
teams and sales teams truly and truly
analyze their loss rates and their loss
Moda most don't most want to focus on
the win in hitting the plan how how
often do you see people do that well and
what's your best advice to kick kick
your team's ass so you can focus on
those analytics like a trip
yeah
um I remind everyone I work I only work
with underdogs that's my thing all right
that's like the thing I love right
um and
we are we need to if you look at ramp
ramp has less than one percent of market
share we're not competing with Rex
that's a mistake we're competing with
Amex
okay that's what we're competing with
that's the goal and if you look at a
drift like thinking that we can beat the
intercom like directly sure so like how
many websites just don't have a chat
that's that's the real goal that's a
real goal and so every time we're
looking at the market we need to
understand who's doing and buying
something else so I am pushing the team
to understand how far we are from being
dominant
and being very realistic
about those loss rates yeah I agree I
think you need you need to look into
that every time the last one and then
I'll let you go um unless you want to
grab anything else but going back to my
initial question because this will be
helpful
the the the the point about learning
over segment drift and gorgeous note is
that you can't accelerate the the buying
cycle it's very profound actually so
what is state of the and we're all about
ready to vomit from breakup emails right
if I get one more breakup email I'm I
and now I literally just Spam them in
Gmail in the hopes that they can't reach
anybody like I didn't used to be passive
aggressive but now I I put them in spam
into my Gmail what is best practices
here from a marketing perspective how
many contacts what's how can you do this
better so that it works how much value
to add what type of content anyhow think
about I mean how can you measure some
and say it's going to be nine months on
average until we close them what do we
do for those nine months yeah okay good
question so you'll be relieved to hear I
do not send breakup emails nor have I
ever done
um my emails we strive that almost all
of our emails provide value in the first
email which means I almost never talk to
my company in my first season Almost
Never
people don't care about my company my
product they don't care about me okay
that's not that's not that top thought
for the day to be honest okay which
means I try to have my teams come up
with something if possible that is
uniquely valuable let's just go back
quickly for the gorgeous example
the course example we had at the time
built a Instagram scraper which would
monitor the
um negative uh comments uh posts on so
the negative comments on Instagram posts
um about Brands we Monitor and if the
brand had not responded within two days
it would automatically screenshot that
sent to the head of marketing and say
hey Jason uh just people saying you know
negative things about your products and
you should just like you should you know
handle that and that's it that was the
that's just a message
true so it's factual like you should do
something about it two it's verifiable
it's there on Instagram right and you
know it's actually helpful right and it
so happens like watches eventually does
integrate with some of those things it
can help you handle that right and so
sure there's obviously a power level but
what's your first answer there thanks I
said hey thanks it's cool thanks for
pointing that out that's it I'm just
crying trying to create value in order
to get your reciprocity and if I do that
I'm doing a pretty damn good job as a as
a marketing sales person if you can do
that at scale you win
got it okay one last one Caitlyn can I
have one last one and then we break this
is just another meta one that's really
that's really helpful and um one I've
talked about a lot lately
um and I'd love to hear your thought
from the marketing perspective is
switching costs switching costs let's
take ramp okay uh yes I can switch to
ramp from a competitor but you know what
a headache it is with all the recurring
charges I have the Integrations with my
other systems now ramp's not gorgeous is
maybe a more interesting example
um okay I want to go from zendesk to
gorgeous because it's focused on
e-commerce but what about all the
records I have what about the money I've
put in zenist what about the switching
costs and I feel like uh I I challenge
folks all the time for fun sales reps
and sales Executives okay what will you
do how will okay I'm interested in your
product but I don't got time and I don't
want to pay a hundred thousand dollars
in six months to do it so how is are
this is there state-of-the-art thinking
on how to incent the switching
so I'm and we might have different
opinions but I'm a big fan of the combo
two things one it's
um a buyback just got some form of a
buyback yeah you're paying for the
remaining amounts of the contract to
offset some of the switching costs the
cash pot or is not the human cost okay
yes the second part is that I've tried
and drift did that the best
um is most of the problems
um of most of the churn in it's linked
is onboard insurance if you didn't
onboard the custom property right they
just didn't do what it what it takes to
like you know get to the success of the
products yes okay what we've done we've
figured out is we make the product free
for the POC completely free if the
customer commits to a list of onboarding
tasks
all right
month by month there's three months and
it's those things and they seem easy
when you sign the contract they're not
you need to go through legal and
security and all of that but if they do
those things and they fail and the point
does not work for them they don't get
the value
we'll just pay them back and say and say
goodbye we did that drift it was amazing
people did not believe the product
values I don't know we're working to
come it works great this value is not
going to exactly realize and we told
them like I understand you don't believe
us you do those things those playbooks
we recommend you put the chats with that
Playbook on these Pages it doesn't
create a lifts the products entire free
you're off you're off the hook right I
love it when you do that when you do
that and you're really convinced about
the product obviously this product needs
to work you do that the people will
realize wow like they're really
committed I should try this thing and it
reduces your churn which is the biggest
problem on running show
yeah it's a great one I did not know
drifted and I when I use that Playbook
the other on the sales side I found that
whoops can you guys still hear me yeah I
found that there's a middle segment
that's like an almost and I am surprised
how much that commitment of standing of
not paying if you don't do these things
or hit it it will tilt people over right
it doesn't address the activation issue
right but there is this segment that is
they're almost gonna buy the last day of
the month they're almost gonna buy here
but they don't want to be ripped off
they don't want the game they don't want
to deal with the headaches and if you
take that that un unvoiced objection out
I thought it's magical I find it's
magical magic yeah all right we'll stay
on that board magical is the world all
right thanks G this was great awesome if
you want more Magic from G come disaster
annual he will be there so make sure you
buy your tickets and come to San Mateo